Remove TypeScript create section from TypeScript page (#932)
strapi/documentation: docs/developer-docs/latest/development/typescript.md

canonicalUrl: https://docs.strapi.io/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/configurations/databases/typescript.html
---

# TypeScript development

::: callout 🚧  TypeScript documentation
This section is still a work in progress and will continue to be updated and improved. Migrating existing Strapi applications written in JavaScript is not currently recommended. In the meantime, feel free to ask for help on the [forum](https://forum.strapi.io/) or on the community [Discord](https://discord.strapi.io). Check the [beta documentation](docs-next.strapi.io) for faster access to TypeScript documentation.
:::

> TypeScript adds an additional type system layer above JavaScript, which means that existing JavaScript code is also TypeScript code. Strapi supports TypeScript in new projects on v4.2.0 and above. The [CLI documentation](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/installation/cli.md) describes how to develop a new TypeScript project. Additionally, the [project structure](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/file-structure.md) and [optional configurations](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/configurations/optional/typescript.md) sections have TypeScript-specific resources. The core Developer Documentation contains code examples in both JavaScript and TypeScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TypeScript adds an additional type system layer above JavaScript, which means that existing JavaScript code is also TypeScript code. Strapi supports TypeScript in new projects on v4.2.0 and above. The [CLI documentation](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/installation/cli.md) describes how to create a new TypeScript project. Additionally, the [project structure](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/file-structure.md) and [optional configurations](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/configurations/optional/typescript.md) sections have TypeScript-specific resources. The core Developer Documentation contains code examples in both JavaScript and TypeScript.
```

To me, the CLI section only explains how to create a TS project. To _develop_ one, people will need to follow the instructions we'll give in the docs-next content.
Also, I'd be a bit more specific in the other sentences. For instance, the TS configuration (config > optional > typescript page) is "optional" from the global point of view of a Strapi app (if you don't use TS, you don't need this config.), but is an absolute requirement to start developing Strapi with TS, or the code won't compile.

I think I would even use a prerequisites callout mentioning that before starting developing with TS you either need to create a new project with the appropriate CLI or at least add the required config files. (to be checked with devs).

Author: - I updated the sentences. From the existing callout and the written text, we are not suggesting or providing any methods for converting existing projects to TypeScript projects. The only provided method is to use the CLI to make a new project with the appropriate flag. Eventually, there will be instructions for incorporating TypeScript into an existing project but that is not ready. 
- I used "core" because I don't think we checked or altered lots of the vestigial documentation for TypeScript (I am thinking of the old guides) but I am fine with the word removed as well. 
- I added the prerequisites callout, but now the callout and the introduction are duplicating content so I am not sure what you intended for the final result?

canonicalUrl: https://docs.strapi.io/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/configurations/databases/typescript.html
---

# TypeScript development

::: callout 🚧  TypeScript documentation
This section is still a work in progress and will continue to be updated and improved. Migrating existing Strapi applications written in JavaScript is not currently recommended. In the meantime, feel free to ask for help on the [forum](https://forum.strapi.io/) or on the community [Discord](https://discord.strapi.io). Check the [beta documentation](docs-next.strapi.io) for faster access to TypeScript documentation.
:::

::: prerequisites
To start developing in TypeScript create a new project using the [CLI](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/installation/cli.md)

:::

> TypeScript adds an additional type system layer above JavaScript, which means that existing JavaScript code is also TypeScript code. Strapi supports TypeScript in new projects on v4.2.0 and above. To start developing in TypeScript use the [CLI documentation](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/installation/cli.md) to create a new TypeScript project. Additionally, the [project structure](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/file-structure.md) and [TypeScript configuration](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/configurations/optional/typescript.md) sections have TypeScript-specific resources for understanding and configuring an application. The Developer Documentation contains code examples in both JavaScript and TypeScript.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TypeScript adds an additional type system layer above JavaScript, which means that existing JavaScript code is also TypeScript code. Strapi supports TypeScript in new projects on v4.2.0 and above. TypeScript-enabled projects allow developing plugins with TypeScript as well as using TypeScript typings.

::: strapi Getting started with TypeScript
To start developing in TypeScript, use the [CLI documentation](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/installation/cli.md) to create a new TypeScript project. Additionally, the [project structure](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/file-structure.md) and [TypeScript configuration](/developer-docs/latest/setup-deployment-guides/configurations/optional/typescript.md) sections have TypeScript-specific resources for understanding and configuring an application.
:::
```

I let your rephrase the sentence I added if it's not good enough (and check it works well), it was mainly to give an idea of what I had in mind. I thought the introduction felt like unrelated sentences put together, so in my opinion it could help to focus just on what TypeScript is and what the documentation is here for, and then use the Strapi callout to mention other links. I'm aware that for now the documentation is short and it might look a bit busy with all the callouts but it should look better later once there's more content in the page and we remove the first callout.

Author: ok thanks
